The President:
I'm speaking to you from the
bridge of the aircraft carrier
USS Carl Vinson in San Diego.
This is one of the
biggest ships in the Navy,
and on Friday it was home to
one of the most unique college
basketball games I've ever seen.
It also gave members of our
military and our veterans a
chance to unwind a little bit,
and on this Veterans Day,
I want to take this opportunity
to thank all our men and women
in uniform for their
service and their sacrifice.
But this day isn't just
about thanking our veterans.
It's about rededicating
ourselves to serving our
veterans as well as
they've served us.
And right now, that's
never been more important.
Last month, I announced
that, as promised,
we will end the war in Iraq
by the end of this year.
Many of our military families
will be welcoming loved ones
home for the holidays.
At the same time, we've
begun to wind down the
war in Afghanistan.
And in the next five years, over
a million service members will
transition back into civilian
life - joining the 3 million who
have already done so
over the last decade.
These are men and women who have
served with distinction in some
of the most dangerous
places on the planet.
But for many of them, the
challenges don't end when
they take off the uniform.
Today, more than 850,000
veterans remain unemployed.
And too many are struggling
to find a job worthy of their
talents and their experience.
That's not right.
We ask these men and women to
leave their families and their
jobs and risk their lives
to fight for our country.
The last thing they should have
to do is fight for a job when
they get home.
To give our veterans the
opportunities they've earned,
I've directed the federal
government to lead by example -
and already, we've
hired 120,000 veterans.
We've also challenged private
companies to hire or train
100,000 post-9/11 veterans
or their spouses by the end
of 2013.
So far, many patriotic companies
have answered the call,
hiring more than
16,000 Americans.
And yesterday, thanks to the
hard work of Michelle and
Dr. Jill Biden, companies
announced their commitment
to train or hire 125,000
more over the next two years.
But we need to do more.
That's why, as part of
the American Jobs Act,
I called on Congress to pass
a Returning Heroes Tax Credit,
which would give businesses a
tax break for each unemployed
veteran they hire; and a
Wounded Warriors Tax Credit,
which would give businesses
a tax break for hiring an
unemployed veteran with a
disability related to their
service in uniform.
These proposals will go a long
way towards putting our veterans
back to work.
And on Thursday, I was
pleased to see the Senate
put partisanship aside and
came together to pass these
tax credits.
After all, standing up for our
veterans isn't a Democratic
responsibility or a Republican
responsibility - it's an
American responsibility.
It's one that all of us
have an obligation to meet.
And the House should pass this
bill as soon as possible so I
can sign it into law.
As Commander-in-Chief, I want
every veteran to know that
America will always honor your
service and your sacrifice --
not just today, but every day.
And just as you have fought for
us, we're going to keep fighting
for you - for more
jobs, for more security,
for the opportunity to keep your
families strong and America
competitive in the 21st century.
So to all our veterans -
thank you for your service.
God bless you.
And may God bless the
United States of America.